# Documentation for the `GetCDISCCodelist` package.
  
----------------------------------------------------------------
 
 *GetCDISCCodelist* 
  
----------------------------------------------------------------
 
### Version information:
  
- Package: GetCDISCCodelist
- Version: 1.0.0
- Generated: 2025-11-22T22:19:57
- Author(s): Saikrishnareddy Yengannagari
- Maintainer(s): Saikrishnareddy Yengannagari
- License: MIT
- File SHA256: `F*0F0778157774C84A5B369D1F61102442283EAABEB3E2794F2468767E55D5F69F` for this version
- Content SHA256: `C*4AB2E7775879A7A4729A17DCF2D484E4712EC82E269B55B7DB97D3C508CD4912` for this version
  
---
 
# The `GetCDISCCodelist` package, version: `1.0.0`;
  
---
 
This repository contains a SAS macro retrieves and filters CDISC Controlled Terminology (CT) codelists for various CDISC standards (SDTM, ADaM, CDASH, etc.). The macro interacts with the CDISC Terminology API to fetch the latest terminology version and filters the codelists based on the specified input parameters.
  
---
 
  
---
 
Required SAS Components: 
  - Base SAS Software
  
---
 
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------
 
*SAS package generated by SAS Package Framework, version `20250729`*
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------
 
# The `GetCDISCCodelist` package content
The `GetCDISCCodelist` package consists of the following content:
 
1. [`%getcdisccodelist()` macro ](#getcdisccodelist-macro-1 )
  
 
2. [License note](#license)
  
---
 
## `%getcdisccodelist()` macro <a name="getcdisccodelist-macro-1"></a> ######

@file GetCDISCCodelist.sas

@brief Retrieves a specified CDISC Controlled Terminology codelist via CDISC Library API.

@details 
This macro connects to the CDISC Library API using a valid API key to retrieve a specific codelist and its associated terms for standards such as SDTM, ADaM, and others. It supports both ID and CodelistCode-based lookup and can dynamically determine the latest terminology version if not explicitly provided. The result is output to a SAS dataset for further use in metadata-driven processes or validation tasks.

Syntax:
@code
%GetCDISCCodelist(
    codelistValue=AGEU,
    codelistType=ID,
    standard=SDTM,
    version=,
    outlib=WORK
);
@endcode

Usage:
@code
%GetCDISCCodelist(codelistValue=DTYPE, standard=ADAM);
@endcode

@param codelistValue The name or code of the codelist to retrieve (e.g., AGEU, PARAMCD, DTYPE).
@param codelistType Specifies the type of match: either ID or CODELISTCODE.
@param standard CDISC standard to use (e.g., SDTM, ADAM). Defaults to SDTM.
@param version Controlled Terminology version in YYYY-MM-DD format. If omitted, the latest version is retrieved automatically.
@param outlib Output library where the resulting datasets will be stored. Defaults to WORK.

@return Creates two output datasets in the specified library: one for merged codelists and another for the filtered codelist containing only the requested items.

@version 1.0

@author Saikrishnareddy Yengannagari

  
---
 
  
---
 
# License <a name="license"></a> ######
 
Copyright (c) 2025 Saikrishnareddy Yengannagari

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
  
---
 
